---
tags:
   - techniques
---
# At
## ID:T1053/002
Adversaries may abuse the [at](/mitre/software/S0110) utility to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. The [at](/mitre/software/S0110) utility exists as an executable within Windows, Linux, and macOS for scheduling tasks at a specified time and date. Although deprecated in favor of [Scheduled Task](/mitre/techniques/T1053/005)'s [schtasks](/mitre/software/S0111) in Windows environments, using [at](/mitre/software/S0110) requires that the Task Scheduler service be running, and the user to be logged on as a member of the local Administrators group.

On Linux and macOS, [at](/mitre/software/S0110) may be invoked by the superuser as well as any users added to the <code>at.allow</code> file. If the <code>at.allow</code> file does not exist, the <code>at.deny</code> file is checked. Every username not listed in <code>at.deny</code> is allowed to invoke [at](/mitre/software/S0110). If the <code>at.deny</code> exists and is empty, global use of [at](/mitre/software/S0110) is permitted. If neither file exists (which is often the baseline) only the superuser is allowed to use [at](/mitre/software/S0110).(Citation: Linux at)

Adversaries may use [at](/mitre/software/S0110) to execute programs at system startup or on a scheduled basis for [Persistence](/mitre/tactics/TA0003). [at](/mitre/software/S0110) can also be abused to conduct remote [Execution](/mitre/tactics/TA0002) as part of [Lateral Movement](/mitre/tactics/TA0008) and/or to run a process under the context of a specified account (such as SYSTEM).

In Linux environments, adversaries may also abuse [at](/mitre/software/S0110) to break out of restricted environments by using a task to spawn an interactive system shell or to run system commands. Similarly, [at](/mitre/software/S0110) may also be used for [Privilege Escalation](/mitre/tactics/TA0004) if the binary is allowed to run as superuser via <code>sudo</code>.(Citation: GTFObins at)
## Mitigations
* [Operating System Configuration](mitigations/M1028)
* [Audit](mitigations/M1047)
* [User Account Management](mitigations/M1018)
* [Privileged Account Management](mitigations/M1026)
