---
tags:
   - techniques
---
# TCC Manipulation
## ID:T1548/006
Adversaries can manipulate or abuse the Transparency, Consent, & Control (TCC) service or database to execute malicious applications with elevated permissions. TCC is a Privacy & Security macOS control mechanism used to determine if the running process has permission to access the data or services protected by TCC, such as screen sharing, camera, microphone, or Full Disk Access (FDA).

When an application requests to access data or a service protected by TCC, the TCC daemon (`tccd`) checks the TCC database, located at `/Library/Application Support/com.apple.TCC/TCC.db` (and `~/` equivalent), for existing permissions. If permissions do not exist, then the user is prompted to grant permission. Once permissions are granted, the database stores the application's permissions and will not prompt the user again unless reset. For example, when a web browser requests permissions to the user's webcam, once granted the web browser may not explicitly prompt the user again.(Citation: welivesecurity TCC)

Adversaries may manipulate the TCC database or otherwise abuse the TCC service to execute malicious content. This can be done in various ways, including using privileged system applications to execute malicious payloads or manipulating the database to grant their application TCC permissions. 

For example, adversaries can use Finder, which has FDA permissions by default, to execute malicious [AppleScript](techniques/T1059/002) while preventing a user prompt. For a system without System Integrity Protection (SIP) enabled, adversaries have also manipulated the operating system to load an adversary controlled TCC database using environment variables and [Launchctl](techniques/T1569/001).(Citation: TCC macOS bypass)(Citation: TCC Database)

Adversaries may also opt to instead inject code (e.g., [Process Injection](techniques/T1055)) into targeted applications with the desired TCC permissions.

## Mitigations
* [Privileged Account Management](mitigations/M1026)
* [Update Software](mitigations/M1051)
* [Audit](mitigations/M1047)
* [Restrict File and Directory Permissions](mitigations/M1022)
